ENGGEN 403 - ROL 2 - Nipoon Patel - 8814985
ENGGEN 403 is moving more and more away from the typical engineering courses. I feel this course is making me feel and think like a businessman. More importantly 'why' we do things rather than 'how' we go about implementing things. For example, if we are looking to release a new product we must think of why we are releasing this product? How will this impact our company? What will the impact be concerning profit/loss? We consider lesser about how we are going to go and implement this product. This I feel is a significant difference in thinking compared to the other courses. Most engineering courses only teach us 'how' we go about implementing but not the consequences because of it. 
I fancied how in assignment one everyone had to come up with their own different idea. Even though it was tough initially, it was a great exercise which made us think outside the box. One thing that was interesting to notice was that individuals usually come up with an idea from the same specialisation. For example, chemmat students thought of some sort of manufacturing plant whereas software students thought of mobile app or website. This demonstrates how our brain revolves around what we do in our daily life. Assignment two was also fascinating and something very different. I liked how we were made to form a profit/loss statement; it was something I had never done before and was enjoyable to learn.
I have honestly enjoyed listening to the guest lecturers, especially from EY. They presented many good points like "EQ is more important than IQ" or "CEO of the company isn't always the smartest person but must have a great EQ". Points like these really made me think about how I am approaching my career. I always wanted to become a tech nerd who was best programmer in the room. But ENGGEN is making me realise that a good engineer is not someone who is only good at programming, but someone who can communicate and socialise with other individuals. Hence, have that high EQ.
The systems project is slowing creeping up, and I am surprised that the content material has still not moved to preparing us for the systems week. Last year in ENGGEN 304 Rob and Garry had started presenting about the systems week several lectures in advance. Maybe this year will be different as ENGGEN 403 is meant to be an 'advanced' course and hence we will not be spoon fed as much. I am looking forward to what will the topic be this year and who all will be in my group. It is always a great experience working with members from different specialisations because we all think from different aspects and bring a different point of views to the project. 
The lecture content and assignments are making me think outside the box and this is something I really fancy. I hope the second half of ENGGEN is just as intriguing as the first half.

